Wait, we can scale blockchains at the
network layer if we send information
fast.
>> I'm curious, how does the user specify
this? Like um is this does this happen
at the app level or at the user level?
Can the user really specify they don't
want to be a source of validator?
>> How does paladin align incentives? You
mentioned uh you know the idea of
paladin is to align incentives
especially for non-malicious or you know
honest leaders, right? How are the
incentives aligned? Excellent question.
So it goes like
>> Hello, welcome to another episode of the
one podcast. Today we have with us Yuri,
the founder of Blocksten. He's also the
creator of the Paladin project. Welcome
to the show, Yuri.
>> Thank you guys. Thank you for having me.
>> Awesome. So this is we like um the first
question we typically like to ask our
guest is what what what's your
background? What pulled you into crypto?
Okay, so be like I am a crypto guy but
before that I'm really a networking guy,
right? So way back then when I was a
software engineer back in Israel and
then I figured you know what being a
software engineer is kind of boring for
me. Like it's kind of like okay you do
the same thing etc. I want to do
something else. So me and my wife moved
here to the US and I did my PhD at
Northwestern University where I still
live and my PhD is in computer networks.
So I am a networking guy, you know, TCP
and quick and like Wi-Fi and like muimo
and cool stuff like in that world etc.
So I'm I'm a networking guy and through
my research I had a project which kind
like pivoted from one thing to another.
By the way, if you're not from academia
that yes, you build something, you write
it, etc., you send it to like a
conference and you get rejected and then
just very much like a startup. Okay, how
do we take the work we already did and
we pivot it. You slightly change the
story. Maybe we do this, maybe we do
that. So, we already built a system and
that didn't go to one country then to
the other, etc. Eventually, we turned it
into like a proofof work like it's
called Webcoin. It's a proofof work like
chain that instead of hashing it scrapes
the internet, right? So it creates like
an index like Google like bing that as
as a research project. It's pretty cool.
But that's how I kind of got into that
world. But then and we're talking like
2016 or so. Um that was like the block
size wars on Bitcoin, Bitcoin, Bitcoin
Cash, should we make blocks bigger, etc.
So back then me and my then adviser and
now co-founder professor Kusmanovich we
were kind like wait we can scale
blockchains at the network layer if we
send information fast we could allow for
larger blocks at shorter time intervals
so the original idea of blocks route
it's called blocks route because we
route blocks and transactions is to send
blockchain data fast so that was the
idea and we kind of like how I got into
crypto now I never wanted to be a
founder. I was on my way to academia. We
were kind of like you do a project then
you do industry. Like it's interesting.
You you have a lot of flexibility in
what you do. But I remember me and Alex
were sitting in a room like oh we could
do this and this and here's how it makes
money. Like this is a billion dollar
idea. Like we can't not do it. I never
Alex has like startup like background
before that. Like I never wanted to do
like I'm I'm a technical guy. I'm a dev.
like what do I know about like starting
a company and etc. It was too big of an
idea. So when we started blocks route
and blockchain is the same like it's a
BDN a blockchain distribution network
right we send information fast we hear
information fast with like like like
servers all around the world and some
cool technologies around that and then
we really found product market fit in
2019 2020 when DeFi became a thing right
so leading into the D5 summer all of a
sudden everybody in the world wanted to
see information fast and they wanted to
send information fast right everybody
Everybody wanted to know what's the
latest price. This was like on Ethereum
still proof of works or everybody wanted
to connect to the mining pools to get
their blocks faster and send their trade
to the to the miners and see what the
other people are sending. Right? This
was when started to become a thing and
send their transaction without being
seen by other people. So like we had
front running pro a front running
protection product before flashbot
existed even. Okay? like we're talking
2019 and so like mid9 or something like
that. So we I never wanted to do any of
it but once you go into crypto you kind
like that how could I do anything else
in the world. So we built this and you
know that was like I think our zero to
one moment. We made moved from making
zero money to like 10 million a year or
something like that. And so now blocks
is like a big company. We started on
Ethereum expanded to BC. We did polygon
2 although we depregated that and
sunseted it not long ago. We're very big
on Salana and in all these places we
have like okay we use our infrastructure
to allow people to land transaction
really fast to hear transaction and
blocks and shreds really fast. So that's
kind of like how I got into crypto quite
by accident.
So you you mentioned one just double
clicking on that right one thing I found
fascinating was how does how does block
store actually send this you know
transaction faster
>> right like what's what specifically is
it private links or
>> so so there there are four things like
doing it right you could imagine block
route has like servers all around the
world where we try to propagate
information fast and one of them is just
like [clears throat] okay good
connectivity and connecting the c you
know you don't want to connect from here
through there right you don't want to go
if you're from you know US east to US
west you don't go through Europe or
whatever just like okay constantly
connecting the right like links and we
do have private links as well etc but
basic piece number one is just like good
topology you want to connect that way
both close to the validators who could
be anywhere in the world but also close
to the users whoever wherever they are
in the world right maybe it's your f you
take your dog out and you walk outside
So I need to be close to your ne
neighborhood. So if you're like you walk
the dog, you open the phone because
that's what we all do. You open phantom
or whatever like, oh, I should buy this
or sell that or long this or we should
be very close to you to get your
transaction as fast as possible and land
it as fast as possible. And so one of it
is topology. The other piece is just
good engineering. Okay. Basically, okay,
you do this. We we built the first
prototype. We made it. It was kind of
fast. Then we improved it, iterated, and
then we built it from scratch again way
more prefer like like more efficient and
faster than the original like you know
v1 than v 0 let's call it. And we
iterated and we iterated it. Then we did
that again. So in the early days you can
say oh if we do this we'll shave 10
milliseconds. We don't have 10
milliseconds to shave at this point.
Okay, we propagate information close to
the speed of light. Okay, we propagate
it very fast everywhere. And so like
piece number two here is um um just fast
ju just good engineering. You get it how
you serialize des serialize it like like
do not waste time on copying and etc.
Just just being fast about it. A third
piece which is a bit more interesting is
that we realize this is more for blocks
and shreds.
If you think about blockchains, what
happens, you know, in the vanilla case
is that transactions propagate around
and every so often a block comes out and
it contains some of these maybe all
these transactions, maybe some of them,
maybe some of them that you didn't know.
But in that money time where you want to
propagate a block, well, you don't
really need to propagate the
transaction. the transaction you already
propagated. You could in theory said,
"Oh, just put here transaction 1, 5, 37,
46, 110, etc., right? Because blocks are
just basically a list of transaction,
right? It's a header, some fields in it,
version, time stamp, whatever, and then
just a transaction in it. So in that
money time where you want to propagate
it, you don't need really need to send
it on the wire everywhere. You could
just send the metadata for it. any
transaction that you already propagated
and the system had seen already you
could just replace with a very short ID
and decrypt it on the other side. So you
put it in full you don't no data is
being lost you put full of it in you
know in one side on the wire you just
send the metadata and on the other side
you reconstruct it and it's faster than
sending like the full data. So that's a
third piece so like the caching of it.
There was a fourth piece which I'm
missing. Probably the network effect. If
we're connected to all the users, we see
all the transactions and we're connected
to all the value. So the more people who
connect to us, the faster we become. And
so you know that was more like in the
early days when we tried to get more
people. At this point we're connected to
everybody and their sister. Okay? Like
every major validator out there, every
major chain like like also like L2 and
etc. And so we found ourselves really as
a lot of let's say wallets or trading
terminals or telegram bots and like oh I
I want to offer my user to land
transaction really fast and hear
information really fast on all these
chains like like I could either work
with like seven different providers or I
could go to block route who I know
they're good and they've been here for
like eight years they've been around I
know they're not going to disappear or
pivot in six months and so that's like
that's why they come to us versus like
we make a lot of money. We have a lot of
competition every single vertical we
operate. Somebody say, "Oh, L's making
money there. I should do that, too."
Right? So, we really have competition
every single place that we do. But we
have the track record, but we also
multi-chain, right? So, it's kind like
we support it and we give it everywhere.
And maybe the last point on it is
competitors [snorts]
basically have to do like a zero to one
to do what we do. they need to build the
entire infrastructure and propagate it
and etc. Well, we if we add a chain
right like takes us like 2 3 weeks and
like a 10 to 11, right? I already paid
the money for it. I already iterated for
like eight years. I already all of that.
So, it's very easy for me to add another
project. I know where the value is. I
know how to do it and I don't have to
reinvent the wheel and build support and
build infrastructure and all that it
takes to build it. Does that kind of
answer the question?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean just to switch some
switch gear right uh ho how does uh how
how did paladin come together um because
on one side it feel you know you you
mentioned at block start you you're you
built a product to send transaction
faster and also you built me protection
and then on the other end of the
spectrum you you know you also have
paladin which you know enables or
empowers these
uh validators to capture some of that
MVP. So I'm curious to understand you
know your your evolution towards uh
>> so that that's that's an interesting one
I think so I am a giant DeFi boy okay
like I got really redpilled on DeFi in
2019 for our listeners like it's a short
story but it's very much worth like
hearing in my opinion I heard it I think
it's the former head of the CFTC in the
US and he was saying how in 2008 eight
when the subprime like like crisis kind
like emerged. He was at the White House.
Lehman Brothers is about to crash and
they're sitting there and they need to
decide whether to save it or let it fail
fall. And it's kind of like listen, we
have enough cash. We can responsibly
keep it alive. Maybe another two other
banks like that. But if there are 20
banks underwater, we can't save it. We
do not have enough money to hold all of
them and we let them crash. So what do
we do? Do we save Leman Brothers or we
don't? Well, how many banks are
underwater? Like the regulator should
have all the information. All the books
are open to it. He should know in
theory. In practice, these are like 200
different banks on 200 different
systems. And it takes literally like
four years to connect all the books to
understand who holds who and how much
money they have, right? It's kind of
like the what what what banks did at the
time was okay I give like a gazillion
mortgages and then I put them together
and then then I let sell the mortgages
to other people who take it merge pieces
from different one create a salami out
of it then slice this thing and then
sell it to others. So everybody was
holding everybody else's like like debts
and assets and whatever on completely
different systems
and the wise are like we don't know how
many like banks are underwater. So they
let Leman brother fail and we had the
2008 crisis like major like a major
effect to so many sectors in the US
globally you name it and like four years
later they finish auditing the books and
figure out like the connections like you
know what there was just like one more
bank we could have saved Lehman Brothers
and avoided most of the 2008 crisis if
we had a single global open
permissionless transparent financial
network for the world. So like you know
we talk about price discovery, we talk
about trading, we talk about like like
like a um like privacy etc. Just having
these systems open and composable and
integrate is a huge value. US retail
don't really know how how to appreciate
it as much. If you run a company like
think everything how many shares do you
have who hold everything around it which
isn't secret some of it is private some
of it is not like most of it should be
open that is kind of like this is
extremely so I got really excited about
defi it's kind like this is the future I
want defi to kick ass and beat ci
me I strongly disagree with flashbot and
what they did on Ethereum and created an
auction and trying to max extract.
That's not good for anybody. It did not
push anybody in the right direction. I
kind of hate seeing it playing out on
Solanic literally shooting yourself in
the foot. And so because Blockstart is
such a major actor in DeFi, that made us
also a large actor in ME. And so we
started create like you know on Ethereum
we run two of the five relays off ME
boost etc. on BSE. We're a block builder
and we give better blocks to BSE
validators.
When it came to Solana, I'm like, I
don't want G. I told GTO, I like the GTO
team. I hate their product. I told them
to their face a lot of times over the
years. I told them that creating the Meo
and sandwiching would be bad. It was
bad. I they did the right thing and
stopped like with their Meo and
sandwiching, but at that point, the cat
was out of the bag and everybody got
sandwiched. But the idea of Paladin was
basically
could we offer an alternative, right?
It's kind, oh, it's easy to say you
don't like it, right? It's kind of like
[clears throat]
the question is, can you make it more
profitable to act honestly, right?
What's the problem? And maybe worth that
for people who aren't very familiar. MEV
is maximal
um extractable value. Okay? Like
basically if somebody's about to buy a
million dollar worth of soul then if I
see this before it execute I could
frontr run like oh price of soul is
going to I should have buy it before he
buys it because it's going to go up and
that actually hurts that first trade.
Okay he if I bought before him then I
move the price a bit and so now he gets
a worse price and I could even do a
sandwich. I could frontr run and back
run. So I buy it, he buys it, push the
price up, I sell it right immediately
after him. I sandwich his transaction
and I made money and all the money that
I made came from his pocket. Okay? All
the money that I made came from him. He
lost it. It's not like a victimless like
crime or whatever. It actually hurts
him. Now
me doesn't actually pay that much like
money. It pays like 0.2%
APY or so. like like this isn't the big
money. So if you think from a long-term
perspective like if you're again taking
Solana right now as an example if you're
a Solana validator or a staker all the
stakers to together have like I don't
know a hundred billion dollar worth of
stake okay like if that goes up by 1% in
five years it pays more than front
running and sandwiching okay what they
should do is make it the best chain so
DeFi happens and it booms and all the
like everything goes better and in this
alternative universe where there's no
front running and sandwiching etc. and
DeFi is winning. If that world is just
like price of soul just like 5% higher
and might it should be like 5x higher
right? It should be like 500%. But if
it's just slightly higher it pays more
than me. Nobody should do it. That's the
long term. The problem is the shortterm
incentive. Sure it would be great if
everybody didn't do it and it will be
we'll all benefit. But when I'm the
leader and it's my turn, then I see a
transaction buying a million dollar
worth of well I should buy just in front
of him and sell after him. Okay, so this
is a classic strategy of the comet.
Okay, the strategy that's better for
everybody is not the same one like when
I at that time my uh dominant strategy
i.e. the strategy that makes the most
money is that everybody kind of like
falls to is that I actually
sandwich it and everybody do it and so
nobody benefit and it's a classic
tragedy of the commons right everybody
would benefit if nobody did it but when
it's my turn then I do it and so
everybody does it and etc. So Paladine
came out and Paladine had six different
iteration. It started like I I had one
thing with pre-confirmation on Ethereum
and using Solana and like doing this and
and like I like really iterated a lot in
the past I don't know two three years
now and the idea was how do I solve this
problem okay how do I solve you all how
do I align the short-term incentive with
the long-term incentive
and it is possible to do it mostly
because users have power so you could
imagine
if right now everybody body are
sandwiching and everybody are doing it
then it's kind of like it's kind of like
traffic in India right like sure there
are like like stop signs and red lights
and what but everybody goes every you
can't if you can't even give a ticket to
every literally everybody do it so you
can't get over it but if you imagine
okay if we could somehow incentivize
everybody to do it for a short period of
time if we could incentiv everybody to
behave and everybody and then somebody
misbehave then we could punish him,
right? If everybody nobody doing it, but
then somebody misbehaved. You don't need
a objective proof or anything. Users
should just skip it. Oh, this leader
seems like not legit to me. Like like
this, I think he's sandwiched that guy.
I should just skip him. Okay, why do I
care? I'll just send my transaction.
I'll skip one leader and I'll go to the
next leader. At that point, if you
sandwich people, if you front run, then
you'll start making less money. People
will skip you over. You lose. You'll
make lower APY. your stake would leave
you everybody like your validator going
to nothing. You really don't want to
play with the apps and the users in
playing this game. So if we could get
people to act honestly for some period
of time then at that point okay it is
becomes enforceable right it moves from
I don't know from like India to I don't
know like suburbia I don't know English
suburb or something right it everybody
follow the rules they go when they're
supposed to being super polite and if
somebody goes in a red light okay
everybody sees that he goes in in a red
light everybody go oh I even if I think
he went in a red light like why why
should I take the chance So this becomes
like you could align the incentives. So
Paladine idea and again we had multiple
iterations over it is could we build a
client pal paladine is a fork of Agave
it's a fork of fire danceance like a
patch on top of it and basically say
could we make more money for validators
who don't play these games who don't
include sandwiches and don't don't do
all these things and just act honestly
does that kind of make and this is I
became like I went down that path
because I want DeFi to beat DeFi, it
took way more time and way more money
from from it than like then it was worth
it in terms of like like it's not a good
investment in that regard. But I want
DeFi to win. So, you know, you do what
you it's
not even a choice. You kind of have to
do it. No, they're doing it wrong. We
need to fix it. Does that make sense?
How does Paladin align incentives? You
mentioned uh you know the idea of
paladin is to align incentives for
especially for non-malicious or you know
honest leaders right. How does how do
how does the how are the incentives
aligned?
>> Excellent question. So it goes like
this. Okay
the main pro so let we we explain what
sandwiching is right. Right. So it's
kind like when you come before and after
GTO if you don't know a major product on
Salana
basically imported this idea of bundles
from Ethereum. Okay. So basically you
could send oh here's you know my front
transaction a trigger transaction and
the background transa I could send them
as a bundle to the leader and the b and
they will try to execute it. Now, maybe
it works, maybe it doesn't, but the
bundle does a cool thing that's called
drop on revert. Okay? Basically, if it
doesn't work, you don't pay money. Like,
the entire thing doesn't go on chain.
So, if there's a I don't know, a $100 to
be made in sending a bundle, then you
send it and but and and you don't pay
the $100 unless you made a profit. So,
JTO really combines three different
things, okay? A bundle, okay? multiple
transactions execute one by one which is
the least ant like it's the most anti-
IBRL okay it's really not IBRL stop
everything I want this one and then this
one and then this one don't do no
nothing should go next to it or whatever
so like it's bundled transaction
it is a drop on revert okay it I like
atomic either everything is successful
or it reverts and get dropped and tips
instead Instead of paying in a normal
priority fee, you pay a tip to GTO and
they get 5% and they pass 95% to the Now
bundles are toxic. They suck really bad.
They're really only good for sandwiching
and they're very little else. Could you
use them for other things? Yes. Anything
good? Not really. Okay. Like the only
the people say, "Oh, what about backing?
We are among the pioneers of
backrunning. We've been doing it for
five years. Backrunning is a terrible
solution. Okay, backing is like, oh, you
send a trade which is executed so badly
that I could go after it, right? You
like you traded a million dollar in just
one venue and you move the price so
much. So, I will come and I will buy
somewhere else and I was there and I
correct it and even though I pay them
fee, I make money and there's like
money. That means like oh it was so bad
that you could capture money after that.
If that is the case, what you want to do
is not in the last moment go and correct
the ARB in the last moment you should do
the trading routing right like we have
made a long way in the past five years
whether that's Jupiter whether that's
Titan other aggre like just do the trade
routing better backing doesn't like like
like it really isn't a compelling use
case another one I think um squads are
using bundles okay I really like squads
they're a great project etc but it's Not
because they really need bundles, it's
because transactions are too small.
Okay? And they wanted to do a lot of it
to do it cheaply or whatever. Well,
we're increasing the side of
transaction. If we want to do more
stuff, we should increase the side of we
shouldn't add bundles which only create
significant damage. Okay? Really hinders
DeFi um for that. So bundles suck and
tip also suck like really tip. You could
say that originally, you know, five 50%
of the priority fee got burned. So, it
was a way you could pay the validator
like instead of getting half of it
burned or whatever,
you really don't need tips. Not even for
drop on revert, right? You could say
instead of paying a priority fee, you
could put an instruction that pass the
money to the leader and if the
transaction fails, then you don't pay
that money. Okay? It only goes in if
successful. Is it good for GTO? Sure,
because it pays them the 5%. But like
it's not a really compelling use case.
So the really valuable thing that GTO
brought in is the drop on revert. Okay.
But again, what you're really getting
there is not
the value is not dropping. Nobody cared
if the transaction dropped or not. What
you really want is pay only if
successful, right? It's going to only I
will pay $100 to include this
transaction, but only if it's
successful. I don't want to pay you if
it reverts. And again, we just say that
you could do this with an instruction
like natively put another transa
instruction in the transaction that pays
and then money only goes to the leader
if it goes through or not. And so when I
look at the
people call it micro structure nowadays,
right? But you look at the landscape and
like what GTO and now um um temporal
came out with harmonic, we can talk
about that too. What Paladin does it
like this is all misaligned skewed
incentive. Okay. What Paladin does is
says well instead of putting bundles
first even if they pay less money and
transaction goes after which kind of
like incentivize everybody to send their
transaction as bundles because bundle go
first even if they paid less right.
Okay. So that again good for GTO not
necessarily good for everybody else. So
instead of putting bundles first before
everybody else, take all transactions,
take all bundles, order them by reward
by per CU, okay? Like reward by how much
compute they take and order by that.
whoever pays the most transaction or
bundle or whatever, just like put that
in and
use this idea, right? Like of the the
drop on revert or really pay only if
successful to let people pay directly to
the leader and the leader will make more
money, right? If you use the
pay only if successful instead of a tip,
immediately make 5% more because like
tips takes 5%. But more importantly, put
whoever pays you the most is a
transaction. Whoever pays you most
money, this is who you should put put
first. Not first do all the bundles and
then do the transaction or something
like that. So just cleaning all that out
should make more money to the leader. So
the idea is like okay, just do that.
Next really I don't want to support
bundles. I think bundles suck. We're
going to multiple concurrent leader. We
can talk about it in a bit but like in
multiple concurrent leader world where
you have multiple leaders each one
proposes a partial block it's kind like
okay I propose a thing she propose a
thing hurry up propose a thing and then
the network itself like okay all of them
is one bundle and order them by priority
fee there are no bundles there there's
no such thing like like transaction will
be like ordered by all sorts of stuff by
what other people you don't bundles
don't work there at all they're
ordered in the way that you wanted them
to order. You can't do drop and revert
whether they're because you don't know
if a transaction will be successful or
will revert. None of it works. So this
is like a thing that shouldn't exist in
my opinion. And so going back to like
how do you incentive you make it more
profitable in my opinion like I don't
want to currently I have to support
bundles because like there's money there
and the idea is to make them more money
but it is like get rid of bundles
completely like get rid of sandwiching
etc. make it very easy for people to see
whether the transactions are ordered by
reward per CU or not. Anybody not
ordering by reward by CU should get like
should should start like like like be
like being avoided, right? It's going
like start skipping. That looks weird to
me. I will skip that. Okay. So,
everybody should be doing that in real
time. A few more things around you could
also but does that make sense?
>> Yeah. So if I understood it correctly
the ma the major unlock here is that as
a user you know as a user of a D5
applications
I also have the opportunity to pay a
slightly higher fee to ensure that my
the transaction that I am sending does
not get sandwiched right
>> no
like that's always like that's in theory
that's always a but you should pay
however you need to pay in order to land
your transaction which should be very
little unless you're touching So I'm
like, "Okay, this is a hot account. I'm
trying to land it. Everything is full.
Maybe you should pay more." In reality,
no. Like like transaction go through no
matter what. We see like fees and tips
like really fell off a cliff because of
it. Okay? Because you just send a
transaction and it lands. The idea is
that as a user
and more so your app is an aggregator of
users. Okay? Jupiter or Axiom or Phantom
or whoever, right? They are the
aggregators of users. They should decide
where to send your transaction and they
should send it to validators who order
it by you know by reward per CU again
fee or tip like shouldn't care it should
become like ordered by that and you you
can see it on chain like how the
transaction came out and etc. And you
should skip those that you know if you
look at sandwich.mme right from the
great team the ghost team which is
awesome. If a validator has a lot of
sandwiches or doesn't order the
transaction in that way or does anything
funky skip it. Okay don't take just skip
that one. And that incentivizes all
validators in the short term not to play
these games. Right? The the long term is
already aligned.
Nobody should do it. Everybody should
just put the transaction as they should
and not play funny games and that would
make everybody rich. But the short-term
incentive is a problem. So we should
really give like users and especially
their apps and their aggregators a big
stick. If you mess around, we'll kick
your ass. You will lose money. Okay?
We'll start going like away and and
going others and just skipping you and
send it to the next leader. And that
align the short-term incentive. Does
that make sense?
>> Yeah. I'm curious how does the user
specify this? Like um is this does this
happen at the app level or at the user
level? Can the user really specify they
don't want to be a source of validator?
>> So it's a great question and it really
depends and you could do it in multiple
ways and most users shouldn't know nor
care about any of it. They're trying to
use an app. They don't understand the
architect. Like sure you're you know me,
you, whoever. Okay, like we like this
stuff. Okay, cool. Well, well, I will do
this and I will do this block block or
whatever like like Triton has a good
product called shield and etc. So, it
really should be the apps from my
perspective as aggregators off users and
apps should do it because users should
look oh this app is protecting me and
those like like how many sandwiches
happening to people using this app
versus using that app. How much money
did there these users lost versus in one
app versus the other. show apps should
be the ones doing the leg work. Okay,
I'm like, oh, which and and it's very
easy to decide who to send or it's not
like rocket science right now. I got the
transaction is the current leader really
like like is it okay or not okay? If it
looks okay, send it to it. It's not
okay, send to the next one. That's it.
It's not like rocket science in any way,
etc. I kind of have this
thought at the back of my mind. Does it
make sense
to allow this at the protocol there?
Right? It's kind of like could I make a
transaction that like could only go to
validators within this set, right? And
like like could not go to others. Maybe
it doesn't, but maybe it's an overkill.
Maybe just the app do it and don't send
to that leader. It's going to everything
is happening in real time. Get the
transaction. Look at the leader. Is it
good or not? It looks good. Send to it.
It looks bad. Skip it and go to the next
one. So, it should be the user, but the
user at this point is the app, the
aggregator of its own users.
Does that answer the question?
>> Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Uh,
switching gears a bit. I'm very curious.
Uh, initially started off with Ethereum
and EVM, right? Um, and you mentioned
Polygon, BNB. Uh, how is it different to
move to Solana? Um, and I don't know if
you're on other chains as well that are
not EVM. um in terms of hiring
engineering talent in terms of you know
whatever the day-to-day looks like in
building something like this and like
the specific innovation on FA for
example BAM um does that affect you know
the kind of hires you have to make the
kind of engineering talent that is
needed
so
talent is hard in general but also a lot
of the time you know like we we pay fair
salaries but we're not like like other
project they're like like blast through
the roof. We see like a competitor comes
in and etc. and they're trying and
they're paying a lot and like you know a
year and a half later they're gone or
whatever. It's kind of like sure like
okay that's their VC money like that's
fine but it's kind of like we're trying
to find just good engineers from our
perspective. Okay you could learn the
specific it's cool if you have people
who are you know cryptonative and
they're also a trader and they
understand the space but then they also
waste so much time like being on Twitter
and etc. So you need a good balance. You
want some people being like cryptonative
and okay if they don't only understand
the technologies they understand the
ecosystem they understand that like they
really understand all of that that's
very very valuable but you also want
engineers who really could not care less
and there's like oh I just want to do
here I build my infrastructure thing and
I go home and and they're a lot more
effective in terms of like like you know
how much time I waste oh there's that
thing that I need to answer to like all
all the stuff so you really want a good
balance of both that's in general that's
but It's more so on Solana. Um, one
thing that was extremely hard for me on
Paladin is finding somebody who could
touch the fire dancer client, right?
Fire dancer is written in C. How many
people in our ecosystem can touch the
fire dancer client? Like five. Like like
literally like like nobody's doing it.
Nobody touches it, etc. So like people
to play around with agave like which is
in Rust. Okay, you want smart people
etc. I love the turbine team. Okay, so
Turbine if you don't know they're kind
like like they're like they they're
doing like demos and they're building
projects etc. It's kind of like an
educational thing and then they're kind
of like okay you go to them and you pay
them like a fee like okay I need
somebody to do this this and this and
like you hire through them. So they're
like training plus hiring plus like
project plus community plus something.
So, I really like them and I got some
like really great engineer references
from them. But so, so but again, Rust is
easier. Um um um Agave is easier. A lot
of quite a lot of people could do smart
contract at this point. Okay. Like like
EVM and SVM that doesn't matter.
I find myself often in the validator
code. Okay. Like it's kind of like it's
kind of like deeper than most other
project in that regard. Um that was true
on EVM. That's true also for like both
on Ethereum and Solana and everywhere.
So my hiring needs are different than
most in that regard and it's hard but
mostly find good engine. You need like
find a good engineer who knows what he's
doing and find somebody who understand
what's going on in Solana and between
the two of them they could figure it
out, right? Kind of like you need both.
And it if you're lucky it's the same
person. Um, this is like maybe the best
engineer I know is Oliver who helped me
pick like create Paladin. Now he's at
Anza and okay, he's really talented.
He's really smart. He's very
professional and he understand crypto
and he understand trading. Sure. That's
like one in a million. You don't get
lucky to meet many Oliver out there.
>> Yep. That makes a lot of sense.
Amazing. I think I'm out of questions
here. Shake, do you have any more
questions to add?
Yeah, I I would love to, you know, hear
your thoughts on multiple concurrent
leaders.
H how
do you think that changes things?
>> So, right now, let let's talk about
multiple It's funny. I'm literally
writing a thread about it. Like maybe my
thread about it will come out before
this episode.
>> There are two things. There's multiple
concurrent leaders or three things. four
really multiple concurrent leaders and
you have BAM from GTO and you have
Harmonic from Toro and you have what DTO
is doing now and so multiple concurrent
leader is awesome. It is really a
breakthrough in that regard like Max
working super hard on it. Max Resnik and
like okay try let's get up and glow out
the door. Alessandro from us said like
like I don't know why you think it will
take that long. This shouldn't take that
long. like this isn't like far into the
future. This is not like a fiveyear road
map. This is like 2027. Okay. And so the
idea of multiple concurrent leaders, we
said it earlier, you have multiple
leaders at the same time. Every 50
millisecond they create like a partial
block and that's all accepted by the
network which create a single block out
of that etc. And why is that valuable
and why is that super cool? Because it
breaks the leader monopoly. Okay? Like
leaders could do all these games because
they not only control the ordering of
the transaction, but they also control
what goes in and what doesn't go in,
right? So an app could say, "Oh, I don't
care about the order. I will just like
get bids and I'll choose the highest
one, you know, to make the trade and
like that will decide the price or
whatever." But the leader could easily
say, "Oh, I'll put my transaction. I'll
just censor everything else." And so
like that app can't beat me, right? is
again I can still extract value from it.
Multiple concurrent leaders I mean like
okay I maybe I keep the other
transaction out but then another leader
will put them in. So it's kind of like
you can't play that game and that really
opens up a world of design for DeFi that
is closed right now. Okay, it doesn't
even matter at that point whether your
transaction come first or second etc.
because the the order doesn't even
matter that much. You could like have
like the protocol look at the different
transaction and decide what to execute
further. It is very very cool. Okay. And
so that's multiple crowd leaders. It's
coming out. It's change going to change
how DeFi works. It's going to change a
lot of things. Now between now and then,
you know, we talked about jetto, right?
They send bundles. They send to the
leader. The leader, it's slightly
different in fire dancer. They literally
execute the bundles then execute the
transactions, right? It's kind like two
different tree heaps trips and so like
they do one then they do the other. Um
on agave basically all the bundles come
in it takes all the locks for itself. So
other you know random transaction they
don't touch anything important or
there's any activity or like could
execute by them but really they all
execute and only when they finish they
let the transaction execute. So JTO
really brought the MEV auction idea from
Ethereum. In Ethereum you have PBS, you
have multiple like builders. Jeta
basically made themselves the only
builder. Okay, they call it the block
engine, but it's a very similar idea.
But at least it's continuous, right?
It's kind of like they do this and they
set the bundle, etc. So that's the
baseline of what GTO is doing now. Now
Harmonic from Tuporal just came out and
they say, well, let's not do that. Why
only GTO is running a block engine?
Let's have a competition. Competition is
good, right? So, let's have multiple
block builders and whoever offers the
best like they could send bids through
like harmonic and the best bid will win
and would go to the leader. And so that
sounds good in theory. It has two major
problems.
The first major problem like this like I
wrote about like a year ago. The first
major problem is that it really hurts
Salana. It moves from real time
continuous transaction inclusion and
etc. which is a cool feature of Salana
and what makes it good for trading and
etc and now it turns it into discrete.
Okay, here's a full block after 400
milliseconds kind like you don't get
stuff in between. So that's really is
taking a spec. That is not a good thing
for Solana. Nobody will tell you it's a
good thing for Solana. The second thing
is say, well, you know, they're going to
pay more for the validator, so it makes
sense to take whoever plays more. You'll
have they'll have different strategies.
One will do one thing, then the other,
and whoever has the best strategy will
win. That, my friends, is
Okay? Like,
sure, there are strategies, it's
slightly changed. The only thing that
really matter and we know this from PVS
on Ethereum and Mev Boost and we have
years of experience with it is private
order flow. Okay? If you have three
builders and they all basically got the
same transaction, they all kind of like
have the same stuff, but one of them
also got one transaction that pays an
extra dollar, then he would win. Okay?
Because he got private order for he
could put it in and he could bid higher
than everybody else. And the game to be
played is if you're big and early,
you'll subsidize it. You actually pay
money out of your own pocket to be a
major block builder. Then because you're
big, people would send you say like,
"Oh, I'll give you half of the money
back, right? I'll give you kickback."
Get orderflow. At that point, you're
even better at winning, right? That's
why Ethereum had like 95 a year ago, 95%
of blocks were built by two actors,
right? like Beaver and um
Arsync. Okay. Um no sorry Beaver and
Titan are sync already left at that
point. So it's going to it really is a
winner takes all situation. So this
really oh let's centralize all the order
flow to the block builder and he gets
that and he offers at that point he
stops subsidizing just start to extract
value because he's doing it to make
money. How does he make money? because
he got the private order flow and he
said like, "Oh, I don't need to bid that
high to beat the competition because I
have private order flow that they don't.
I could pay $100 less. I'll keep $50 to
myself. I give $50 to those who send me
the private order flow. This is bad.
This is how it's going to play out. Kind
of terrible." And that's what's kind of
like harmonic from I'm really against
it. And again, that also doesn't work
with MCP. This is all like temporary
solution for like in two years from now,
none of it would work, right? like MCP
is going to change the ordering. Like I
don't care what the builder put in
there, whatever order, it's going to
work based on the order that like MCP
is going to like order them. So that's
like piece number two, right? Like so we
have JTO what they're doing now. You
have harmonic. Now JTO is working on
BAM, right? Bam is saying like, well,
you know what? How about we create
here's how we order transactions and you
have like what they're called like
plugins basically allowing apps to
decide how transactions are to be
ordered and then we give it to BAM nodes
okay they run it on a T on a trusted
execution environment so basically you
have these here's the code you have to
run it as is okay it's in a T you can't
change anything otherwise nobody will
work so you have it's kind of like a
single server that running it or like
multiple replicas running on the same
server and then validators who work with
BAM say oh you just put in whatever the
BAM sent you in that order you can't add
transaction you can't remove transaction
you change you literally are a rubber
stamp of what B sent you okay if B sent
you transaction 1 2 3 4 5 maybe you saw
another transaction transaction six you
can't put it in you could only rubber
stamp what ban had sent you now at that
point like then what's the point of the
decentralized like validator set if this
is the reality and we should use ban and
just what are the validators even doing
in that world like why do we even need
that just use ban oh you want te well
tell the validator to run in a tea if
you want to participate like I don't I
don't get the design and so like this is
that good for us for salana to get like
equities trading on chain I don't think
so like the the value why can we run and
we don't need a license to for e from
the you know SEC for for equities well
because it's decentralized
is it decentralized if there is like
here's the code and you have to run it
as is and you can't include other you
can't change anything like how is that
different than I don't know kraken
taking their exchange and running a code
on like three T's running like in three
different regions or you know one Google
Google cloud AWS and Azure I don't know
whatever like is that the maybe it is
but it's it's not clear that it is like
how decentral like is it or not I don't
know I don't have the answer to that I'm
like I'm not a lawyer but I'm not sure
it gets the same decentralization
properties like the validator said that
being decentralized for a few like that
we have right now so that's the world
that we live in right it's kind of like
we're going toward multiple concurrent
leader this is really coming really soon
and we have these actors speedr
runninging
all the mistake the flashbot did over
the years on Ethereum, right? He's got
like So, so bam, by the way, is just
like copy pasting um what's this called?
Um builderet that flashbot is working
right now. No, it's not that flashbot
actually won, right? He's got flash what
they're doing on Ethereum and Ethereum
has spent the last like three years like
well how do we put it in protocol and
like like EPBS and we're now thinking of
like Fossil how do we add center like
and I'm running two of the five trusted
relays on Ethereum. Okay, I'm running
two of them and they were like supposed
to be there for like 12 months. You
know, this is been going for three over
three years now. It's a temporary
solution to use trusted like like we
they're still here. We're still here.
We're still doing it. So, in my opinion,
and again, I'm an opinionated guy. You
don't have to agree with me, but in my
we really like trying to speedrun all
the designs and whatever like came from
Flashbot when Flashbot really did it
make it work and they are working like
their own L2 swave thing, whatever. We
want, you know, let's say Eugene from
Ellipsus, who I like a lot. He's a great
guy. He's super smart. He's like, he's
like, you know, they build Phoenix. they
built um
sulfi and they're building something
else right now and he's saying listen
fragmentation of how transactions are
being ordered is really bad for us okay
for apps to work we've seen this with
prop amm we need to know how transaction
are being ordered if we don't know how
the transaction are going to be ordered
then we can't allow let our users quote
really tightly right it's kind of like
prop amm is this smart thing where it's
extremely cheap to send an oracle
update. So what the price is and trading
takes a lot more compute units. Okay, so
if if it's 100x or a,000x then you could
imagine that if a
an oracle update is paying a scent, then
anybody who wants to make a trade to
take advantage needs to pay at least
like $10. Okay? So it's by making that
thing that was a super insightful smart
thing to do. you could actually make it
the set really fast cheap updates that
keep getting to the front of the queue
because they pay really high reward per
CU because their CU are tiny okay like
the compute units and that's really
smart but if the transactions are not
ordered by reward price CU then the
entire thing doesn't work so Eugene says
and rightfully so if we don't know how
it works we can't as an app developer I
can't really let my user quote really
tight it affect the micro structure now
um um fragmentation if you have BAM and
GTO and harmonic and paladin and vanilla
and whatever that's actually worse or
it's bad okay like like it's like they
won't know how to it really depends on
the leader each leader does a different
thing etc we want everybody to do the
same thing
BAM jer is saying that well BAM gives
everybody everybody do the same thing
the it allows for ace application like
like controlled execution. Yes,
basically the app can decide how things
execute.
I argue that the cost is too high and
the value is too low. Okay, I don't
think we need ace. I think ACE is a red
herring. Okay, we need we we've seen
that prop amm could compete with CFI if
transactions are ordered by reward by
CU. I think that gives us like 95% of
the value of ACE. I have yet and I try
to ask like people who built decks like
what would you use it for like how could
you make it better with ace I don't
think ace above reward by see gives that
much value the cost in my opinion is
huge the cost of like basically the
validator set doesn't do anything okay
just like a rubber stamp of whatever
band sent them I don't think so so their
argument and again I'm probably doing a
bad job about it because they're they
believe in it and I don't but their
argument is that like you get ACE from
it and ACE is very important if we want
to compete with C5 and the cost isn't
high right like it works and it's fine I
argue that the cost is huge and the
value is little so like oh we want this
well why don't we why can't we let's try
to get all the validators to order by
reward by CU
and then does that does that make sense
again not to agree with me not that I
don't but is my argument clear like what
is Is what I'm saying clear? That like
here's what they're saying and here's
what I'm saying like that they're wrong
on even Solana people like people they
don't really know how transactions are
being ordered. They don't know that
bundles go before transaction even if
they pay less for no reasonable reason.
They don't know like I like it. They
don't it's got like you know you see the
headlines. Oh this is good. This is bad.
like it's funny to see jetto interpol
like on the timeline like we really
won't ban because that thing is terrible
like no competition is good we don't
it's funny but really people should
understand how the thing works and the
details and the nuance of it and they
then they could make up their own minds
>> totally agreed yep on that note thank
you so much Uri for your time it was
great hing you
>> all the best with paralin and blog
starters doing amazing